IBX-6401: Exporting Product and Content metadata to CDP (#2156)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/cdp/cdp_data_customization.md

---

> description: Data customization in [[= product_name_cdp =]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Data customization in Ibexa CDP.
```

---

# Data customization
​
You can customize Content and Product data exported to CDP and you can control what Field Type information you want to export.
By default, custom Field Types have basic export functionality. It casts their `Value` object to string, thanks to `\Stringable` implementation.
​
## Exporting Field Types
​

> Field Types are exported with metadata, for example, ID, Field Definition name, type, value. You can also provide your own  `\Ibexa\Contracts\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldProcessorInterface` instance to extend metadata. Provided implementation has to be defined as a service and tagged with `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_processor`. Additionally, you can specify `priority` to override default behavior. All system Field Processors use `-100` priority, and any higher priority value overrides them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Field Types are exported with metadata, for example, ID, Field Definition name, type, value.
You can also provide your own  `\Ibexa\Contracts\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldProcessorInterface` instance to extend metadata.
Provided implementation has to be defined as a service and tagged with `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_processor`.
 Additionally, you can specify `priority` to override default behavior.
 All system Field Processors use `-100` priority, and any higher priority value overrides them.
```

    "field_measurement_simple_value_base_unit_symbol": "bit/s",
    "field_measurement_simple_value_simple": 100,
    "field_measurement_simple_value_simple_base_unit": 800000000
}
```
​
Field identifier is a prefix that is automatically added to each key. You can only use scalar values.
​
### Built in Field Processors for custom Field Types
​
You may provide your own CDP export functionality by using one of the system Field Processors:

#### `\Ibexa\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldProcessor\SkippingFieldProcessor`.
​
It results in the Field Type being excluded from the exported payload.
To avoid adding the Field Type data to the payload, register a new service as follow:
​
```yaml
custom_fieldtype.cdp.export.field_processor:
    class: Ibexa\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldProcessor\SkippingFieldProcessor
    autoconfigure: false
    arguments:
        $fieldTypeIdentifier: custom_fieldtype
    tags:
        - { name: 'ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_processor', priority: 0 }
```
​
## Exporting Field Type values
​
To customize export of Field Type values, provide your own `\Ibexa\Contracts\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldValueProcessorInterface` instance.

> YNew implementation has to be registered as a service manually or by using autoconfiguration. The service has to use the tag `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_value_processor`, you can also provide `priority` property to override other Field Value Processors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New implementation has to be registered as a service manually or by using autoconfiguration.
The service has to use the tag `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_value_processor`, you can also provide `priority` property to override other Field Value Processors.
```

​
* `FieldValueProcessorInterface::process` - takes `Field` instance and returns an `array` with scalar values that are applied to export data payload.

> If the Field Type returns single value, provide `value` key in the array. You can return multiple values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Field Type returns single value, provided `value` key in the array. You can return multiple values.
```

* `FieldValueProcessorInterface::supports` - decides whether `FieldValueProcessor` can work with the `Field`.
​
### Built in Field Value Processors for custom Field Types
​

> There are few system Field Value Processors that either work by default or can be registered for custom Field Types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several system Field Value Processors either work by default or can be registered for custom Field Types:
```

---
description: Data customization in Ibexa CDP.
---

# Data customization
​
You can customize Content and Product data exported to CDP and you can control what Field Type information you want to export.
By default, custom Field Types have basic export functionality. It casts their `Value` object to string, thanks to `\Stringable` implementation.
​

> ## Exporting Field Types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Export Field Types
```

​
Field Types are exported with metadata, for example, ID, Field Definition name, type, value. 
You can also provide your own  `\Ibexa\Contracts\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldProcessorInterface` instance to extend metadata. 

> Provided implementation has to be defined as a service and tagged with `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_processor`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The provided implementation has to be defined as a service and tagged with `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_processor`. 
```

Additionally, you can specify `priority` to override default behavior. 
All system Field Processors use `-100` priority, and any higher priority value overrides them.

The interface is plain and has two methods that you need to provide:

- **supports** - decides whether your `FieldProcessor` can work with the `Field` instance.
- **process** - takes `Field` instance and then returns a flat array of scalar values that are combined with the payload data.
​
A common Field Type is serialized to:
​
```json
{
    "field_measurement_simple_id": 1792,
    "field_measurement_simple_type": "ibexa_measurement",
    "field_measurement_simple_language_code": "eng-GB",
    "field_measurement_simple_value_measurement": "data transfer rate",
    "field_measurement_simple_value_unit_identifier": "megabyte per second",
    "field_measurement_simple_value_unit_symbol": "MB/s",
    "field_measurement_simple_value_unit_is_base": false,
    "field_measurement_simple_value_base_unit_identifier": "bit per second",
    "field_measurement_simple_value_base_unit_symbol": "bit/s",
    "field_measurement_simple_value_simple": 100,
    "field_measurement_simple_value_simple_base_unit": 800000000
}
```
​

> Field identifier is a prefix that is automatically added to each key. You can only use scalar values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Field identifier is a prefix that is automatically added to each key. 
You can only use scalar values.
```

​
### Built in Field Processors for custom Field Types
​

> You may provide your own CDP export functionality by using one of the system Field Processors:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can provide your own CDP export functionality by using one of the system Field Processors:
```
IMVHO "may" connects with a permission do do something, while "can" implies either the option or the ability.

#### `\Ibexa\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldProcessor\SkippingFieldProcessor`.
​
It results in the Field Type being excluded from the exported payload.

> To avoid adding the Field Type data to the payload, register a new service as follow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid adding the Field Type data to the payload, register a new service as follows:
```

​
```yaml
custom_fieldtype.cdp.export.field_processor:
    class: Ibexa\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldProcessor\SkippingFieldProcessor
    autoconfigure: false
    arguments:
        $fieldTypeIdentifier: custom_fieldtype
    tags:
        - { name: 'ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_processor', priority: 0 }
```
​

> ## Exporting Field Type values

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Export Field Type values
```

​
To customize export of Field Type values, provide your own `\Ibexa\Contracts\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldValueProcessorInterface` instance.
New implementation has to be registered as a service manually or by using autoconfiguration. 

> The service has to use the tag `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_value_processor`, you can also provide `priority` property to override other Field Value Processors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The service has to use the tag `ibexa.cdp.export.content.field_value_processor`. 
You can also provide the `priority` property to override other Field Value Processors.

```
I think a line is needed here, as the following bullets are not rendered properly.

​
* `FieldValueProcessorInterface::process` - takes `Field` instance and returns an `array` with scalar values that are applied to export data payload.

> If the Field Type returns single value, provided `value` key in the array. You can return multiple values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the Field Type returns a single value, provides a `value` key in the array. 
You can return multiple values.
```

* `FieldValueProcessorInterface::supports` - decides whether `FieldValueProcessor` can work with the `Field`.
​
### Built in Field Value Processors for custom Field Types
​
Several system Field Value Processors either work by default or can be registered for custom Field Types:
​

> #### `\Ibexa\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldValueProcessor\CastToStringFieldValueProcessor`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`\Ibexa\Cdp\Export\Content\FieldValueProcessor\CastToStringFieldValueProcessor`
```
I don't think you need to puth these as headers, it looks strange in the output, but please consult the rest of the team.

Same applies to the next processor's fcqn.
